chore: minimal values script (#1516)
SwissDataScienceCenter/renku: docs/admin/index.rst

For MacOS:
.. code-block:: bash

  $ brew install bash
  $ brew install openssl

.. code-block:: bash

  $ ./make-values.sh -d renku.mydomain.ch -o renku-values.yaml

After preparing your values and before deploying Renku please make sure to check the following in the values file:

  - the URLs and DNS names are correct
  - all the necessary secrets are configured
  - verify ingress configuration is correct
  - add/verify, if necessary, the persistent volume claims

Further configuration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You might want to modify some default values, here are some examples:

   * Logged-out users can be given the permission to launch interactive sessions from public notebooks. This feature is turned off by default. For details on how to enable this feature, see the dedicated section below.
   * A custom privacy notice and cookie banner can be configured (as of Renku 0.6.8). See the dedicated section below.
   * Resources requests and limits can be adjusted for the diverse RenkuLab components

>    * For not independent GitLab you can configure an S3 backend for `lfs objects <https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/administration/lfs/index.html>`_ and `registry <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/packages/container_registry.html>`_, this configuration can be added in the ``gitlab`` section

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For deployments that include GitLab you can configure an S3 backend for `lfs objects <https://docs.gitlab.com/ce/administration/lfs/index.html>`_ and `registry <https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/administration/packages/container_registry.html>`_, this configuration can be added in the ``gitlab`` section
```

>    * It is possible to dedicate some nodes for running user environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * It is possible to dedicate some nodes for running interactive user sessions.
```

    $ helm repo add renku https://swissdatasciencecenter.github.io/helm-charts/
    $ helm upgrade --install renku renku/renku \
     --namespace renku \
     -f renku-values.yaml \
     --timeout 1800s

During deployment you can check the Renku pods being started.
If deploying for the first time, GitLab and Keycloak take around 15 minutes to get started. It is normal to see other pods of components that depend on these to be in a `CrashLoopBackOff` state.

Once all the pods are correctly running or completed, a `GitLab Runner <prerequisites/gitlabrunner>`_ can be configured.

3. Verifying RenkuLab deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Check list:

>   * Helm command completed successfully.

Author: I added instructions for the Helm test in a separate section. 
I find these checks to be complementary to the helm tests. Especially the quick checks, which help the admin user to understand better what could be wrong when certain functionality does not work and they are much faster/direct than running the acceptance tests.

>   * Helm command completed successfully.

Reviewer: Yep - mentioning them further down is totally sufficient for me.

  * RenkuLab pods should be all running and jobs completed.
  * RenkuLab pods should not show errors.
  * Perform a quick check:
    #. go to your RenkuLab instance domain
    #. login with a valid user, you can register a new one (this will verify various authentication steps)
    #. create a project (this will verify further authentication, templates and GitLab runner)
    #. add a dataset (this will verify the core backend, LFS objects, and Knowledge Graph components work)
    #. launch an environment (this will verify the notebooks component and GitLab image registry)
  * You should be now able to follow "First steps"

If some Renku pods are not starting or present some errors please check the troubleshooting page.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

>    Troublesooting a Renku deployment <troubleshooting>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Troubleshooting a RenkuLab deployment <troubleshooting>
```

> **Note**. For deployments with existing GitLab and/or Keycloak, the post-install jobs need to be deleted manually in order for the Helm deployment to succeed.

Reviewer: Are you sure? How does this work for our CI deployments?

Author: > Are you sure?

yes, we've been doing this for a couple of deployments with external GitLab and Keycloak in a regular basis. I _think_ the problem is for the keycloak deployment, which the CIs and personal deployments do have it enabled. Another issue is having the postgresql database externally, but this is a corner case and not covered in the minimal values script and template.
In any case, it seems clear that I should take out the GitLab part here.

Author: > I should take out the GitLab part here

Done

Reviewer 2: so the post-install jobs run but never finish? If that's the case it sounds like we need to fix those.

Author: > so the post-install jobs run but never finish? If that's the case it sounds like we need to fix those.

They fail (iirc post-install keycloak job would never be able to connect to /auth since it has been deployed elsewhere) and as a consequence Helm thinks the deployment failed
```
Release "renku" failed: failed post-install: timed out waiting for the condition
```

So indeed we need to fix this. I created a PR that should fix this: https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku/pull/1923 (indeed GitLab post-install job did not need this fix).

Reviewer 2: Right, I was going to suggest a fix like that - but in that case I would remove this word of warning here since once the other PR is merged this will no longer happen. 👍

Author: > Right, I was going to suggest a fix like that - but in that case I would remove this word of warning here since once the other PR is merged this will no longer happen. +1

yes, this was the intention. I'm going to delete this warning. :+1:

4. Post deployment configurations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> After Renku has been deployed you can make some post deployment configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After RenkuLab has been deployed you can make some post deployment configurations.
```

GitLab deployed as part of Renku
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If your RenkuLab deployment includes GitLab you need to follow some additional steps to configure a user admin on GitLab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your RenkuLab deployment includes GitLab you need to follow some additional steps to configure an admin user on GitLab.
```

> #. turn off automatic redirect to GitLab by setting redeploying with the value ``gitlab.oauth.autoSignIn: false``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. turn off automatic redirection to GitLab by redeploying with the value ``gitlab.oauth.autoSignIn: false``
```

#. log in as the root user using the password from ``gitlab.password``
#. modify any users you want to modify (e.g. to make them admin)
#. turn the ``autoSignIn`` setting back on

Independent GitLab as identity provider
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If the RenkuLab deployment is using an existing GitLab, this application could be configured as an identity provider for RenkuLab's keycloak. This way all of the users from the existing GitLab instance could authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the RenkuLab deployment is relying on an existing GitLab instance, this instance could be configured as an identity provider for RenkuLab's keycloak. This way all of the users from the existing GitLab instance can log into RenkuLab with their existing login information.
```

> #. Go to https://<renku-domain>/auth (or to your stand-alone Keycloak dashboard), login to ``Admin console`` using admin username and the decoded password stored in ``keycloak-password-secret``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Go to https://<renku-domain>/auth (or to your stand-alone Keycloak dashboard), login to ``Admin console`` using "admin" as username and the decoded password stored in ``keycloak-password-secret``.
```

#. Add an ``Identity Provider`` of type ```OpenID Connect v1.0``.
#. Set ``Alias`` to <renku-domain>, ``Authorization URL`` to https://<gitlab-domain>/oauth/authorize , ``Token URL`` to https://<gitlab-domain>/oauth/token and ``Client ID`` and ``Client Secret`` to the values used in step 1.
#. Click ``Save``. The new Identity Provider should appear and any user from the stand-alone GitLab instance should be able to login.

Updating RenkuLab
------------------

> To update Renku to a newer version please check the **Upgrading from 0.x.x** section of the `release notes <https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku/releases>`_ in case the renku-values.yaml file needs to be modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To update RenkuLab to a newer version please check the **Upgrading from 0.x.x** section of the `release notes <https://github.com/SwissDataScienceCenter/renku/releases>`_ in case the renku-values.yaml file needs to be modified.
```
